You have been provided both with a copy of the:
● software requirements specification for this project, and
● a collection of images for you to use.
You are highly encouraged to utilize leading AI code generation tooling to assist in
rapidly producing your Web application, being sure to describe in broad terms how you
made use of them. Here are some examples of very useful AI tools you may wish to
consider. You will be graded on the quality and functionality of the application and how
well it meets the requirements - no given proportion of the code is required to be hand
coded.
AI-assisted software development tooling options include:
● Cursor, an AI-based IDE, including agentic capabilities (https://cursor.com/) - a
good starting point for local development
● Codex (https://chatgpt.com/) - if your git and GitHub skills are already up to speed
● Claude Code (https://code.claude.com/docs/en/overview) - if your command line
interface, git and GitHub skills are already up to speed
● Another tool of your choice
● During the MS AI Engineering program you will make use of all of the tools listed
above - so take this opportunity to go as far as you are comfortable during this
project
Hint: Start by loading the software requirements specification document into your AI tool
or model of choice, optionally in planning mode, and then enhance, test and modify your
code using your selected AI-assisted software development tooling.
You have been tasked with crafting a website from scratch using your knowledge of
HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Restaurants are dependent upon intuitive interfaces and
impressive visuals. This is where React will come into play. React is a flexible and efficient
JavaScript library used to build user interfaces. It accomplishes this by combining small
code elements, or “components”, into much larger designs. With an easy-to-learn
approach and a wide array of resources and support, React can provide the ability to
scale and reuse components across much larger projects. It’s a handy tool to have in
your kit. To get started, visit the React tutorial page here.
Work through the tutorials to get familiar with the React library and how to integrate it.
Once you are comfortable, your team can begin planning the restaurant site.
First, consider the fundamental functions the customer wants to see on the site:
● Contact information: Address, phone number, hours
● Their menu, broken up by categories
● An “About Us” page highlighting the owners
An email sign-up for a newsletter
● A photo gallery page, and judicious use of photos throughout the site
● Something showcasing their awards and positive reviews
● An ability to make a table reservation via the Web site
You will also want to provide a constant thematic look and feel by applying a consistent
CSS for the entire site. You can either build this directly or utilize CSS-in-JS to code
through the React scripts. Your CSS implementation should take either a Flexbox, or Grid
approach to design. For more information, check here.
In addition to needing a new web site providing a great web presence, the owner of Café
Fausse is tired of fielding so many calls for available tables. What they need is a
web-based system that provides the capability to accept reservations for customers. This
system should be able to select specific timeslots, input the number of guests, assign a
name to the reservation, require an email address and an optional phone number and
store this information in the system. It should also check to ensure the timeslot is not fully
occupied.
To address the reservation system requested by the owner of Café Fausse, you will need
to build both a front-end interface using forms, and a back-end SQL database that stores
the reservations. This should be accomplished with a combination of a React front-end
form, and using Flask/Python and PostgreSQL for back-end logic and database
respectively. Your PostgreSQL database should have, at a minimum, a table for
Reservations and Customers. Customers should have a “Customer ID”, “Customer
Name”, “Customer Email”, “Phone Number” and “Newsletter Signup”. Reservations
should have a “Reservation ID”, “Customer ID”, “Time Slot” (date and time), and “Table
Number”. The back-end logic should take the customer’s information, add it to the
customer table, then assign a random available table for the chosen time slot (assume
there are 30 tables total). Once completed, it should confirm to the user a successful
reservation. If all seats are taken for that time slot, the system should send back a
message that the customer needs to pick another time.
In total, your website should have a minimum of five pages:
● Main (index) page
● Menu
● Reservations
● About us
● Gallery
The additional elements listed above may be present on one of these pages or others.
The email sign-up should utilize form elements to provide this functionality and include
basic verification on the input fields, and also store sign-ups in a backend database.
Once you are satisfied with the look and feel, test your site to ensure all links work and
the behavior is intended. Verify that it can operate on multiple browsers and platforms.
Consider using a mobile emulator tool, such as Chrome’s mobile simulator testing tool.
Note: Your team can use additional photographs/images on the web site but ensure that
they are royalty free. You can also or alternatively make use of additional AI-generated
images.
The final site and all of its components should be hosted either 1) locally (localhost) or 2)
on an accessible staging server. In a submitted screenshare demonstration, you will
demonstrate all functionality of your Web application.

